Preheat oven to 350˚F. Spread flour on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and bake 10 minutes. Let cool slightly (flour should still be warm to the touch), about 3 minutes.
Meanwhile, using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and salt in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 2–3 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in milk and vanilla. Add warm flour and beat on low speed until incorporated. Increase speed to medium-high and continue to beat until dough separates, then comes back together, about 30 seconds. Chill 10 minutes.
Mix base cookie dough and chocolate chips with a spatula in a large bowl. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 30 minutes.
Crush cookies in a plastic bag until finely crushed. Mix base cookie dough, cookie crumbles, and oil with a spatula or your hands in a large bowl. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Sift cocoa powder over base cookie dough. Add marshmallows, almonds, chocolate chips, and oil and mix with a spatula or your hands until incorporated. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350˚F. Spread oats and walnuts on a rimmed baking sheet and bake until walnuts are lightly toasted, about 10 minutes. Let cool at least 15 minutes.
Mix base cookie dough, oats, walnuts, raisins, oil, and cinnamon with a spatula or your hands in a large bowl. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat base cookie dough and peanut butter in a large bowl until smooth. Add peanut butter cups and candies and fold with a spatula. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Cookie dough made 5 days ahead. Store in an airtight container and chill, or freeze up to 1 month.
